+++
title = "Projects"
+++

### Quid Pro Code: Peer Effects and Productivity in Open Source Software  

**Abstract:** We empirically examine the extent to which peer effects influence
the private provision of public goods. In the case of public information goods,
peer contribution may facilitate or otherwise incentivize further contribution
from others, effectively subsidizing private provision. Using the setting of
Open Source Software (OSS) contribution, we first utilize a reduced form
approach to derive causal estimates of net peer effects in public goods
contribution by exploiting a peers-of-peers identification strategy. We next
develop a structural model of peer-influenced public good provision that both
(1) separates extensive and intensive margin contribution decisions and (2)
decomposes contribution into marginal private benefits and costs. We apply these
methodologies using a sample of peer contribution histories for 2,287 OSS
projects hosted on the GitHub collaboration platform. Both reduced form and
structural approaches suggest peer effects are much stronger along the extensive
margin than the intensive margin. Contemporaneous intensive margin effects,
while heterogenous across time and projects, are small and centered around zero,
suggesting that strategic complementarity and substitution in peer contribution
likely offset one another. Our counterfactual analysis suggests (extensive
margin) peer effects account for nearly 56% of cumulative aggregate contribution
in the sample, which translates to a value-added of 1-1.5 million software
developer labor hours. These results support the notion that OSS is largely
developed by disproportionate efforts from smaller groups of dedicated core
maintainers, who integrate incremental contributions from the wider community,
and casts doubt on the promise for peer effects alone to deliver sustained
maintenance labor to individual projects. [[working
paper]](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AX2HY18d8kPSPqLExT3k3mdPSS8z7Q4q/view?usp=sharing)
[[slides]](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1les20Z1S3sMZWBnREJJxIVcVuCK5yZZA/view?usp=sharing)

### No Free Lunch For Programmers: Digital Supply Chains and the Economics of Software Dependency Management

Developers of software projects can leverage the functionality of existing open
source projects.  This practice can potentially lower the cost of development
albeit at the inherent risk of relying on external components. A "downstream"
project maintainer can choose to "import" elements of an "upstream" project to
outsource functionality, but is uncertain how future changes in this dependency
project may expose her own project to software faults or vulnerabilities.
Software dependency networks therefore represent a "digital supply chain", an
ecosystem of interdependent public goods that confer an intricate set of both
positive and negative externalities for project maintainers and end users.
Focusing on microeconomic fundamentals of the dependency management problem
faced by the risk averse project maintainer, we use both reduced form and
structural approaches to study how dependency networks create value, what forces
shape their formation, and how individual behavior can influence the robustness
of equilibrium network structure.  We use a sample of open source software
projects from the Node.js JavaScript packaging ecosystem for which contribution
and dependency formation decisions are observed in real-time. Finally, we
consider several policy interventions that can improve equilibrium welfare.  In
particular, we find that removing less that 1% of core projects can reduce
aggregate project quality by more than 5% for the remaining peers. [[working
paper]](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UUlCrP2HZZWlUxa1CzBcGtupfELCBWfk/view?usp=sharing)
[[slides]](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1JDVLZH0VWRDYpDQYo22yxNlHXJeCnNld/view?usp=sharing)

### How do Employment Verification Mandates Impact U.S. Agriculture?

**Abstract:** Employment verification mandates require firms to prove each new
hireâ€™s legal right to work in the U.S. and sanction employers who knowingly hire
undocumented workers. The effects of such policies are of particular concern to
the agricultural sector, which draws from a labor pool in which undocumented
workers have been historically overrepresented. This paper empirically estimates
the impact of state-level mandates on farm outcomes. By exploiting geographic
variation in statewide E-Verify mandates implemented between 2007 and 2012, I
use an identification strategy that combines both differences-in-differences and
regression discontinuity techniques to isolate the effect of E-Verify on
agricultural labor patterns. While addressing a number of identification and
estimation challenges, I find that worker density falls by roughly 35% at the
policy-change border for states with stringent mandates. Furthermore, the
average farm spends less per worker within counties adjacent to this same set of
E-Verify states, suggesting some presence of spillover effects. [[working paper]](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ugV9fh1hNhve-IX738OO3KaN6ZHdPb_t/view?usp=sharing)

### fredr: R client for FRED API

- [Project Repository](https://github.com/sboysel/fredr)
- [Documentation](https://sboysel.github.io/fredr/)

**Overview:** `fredr` is an `R` package that provides a complete set of bindings
to the Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED) RESTful API, a service provided by
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. The functions allow the user to search
for and fetch time series observations as well as associated metadata within the
FRED database.

**Involvement:** Creator and maintainer

### Female Political Participation in Sub-Saharan Africa

- [Project Site](http://cournot.sun.ac.za/fppssa/)

**Overview:** We seek to further the understanding of linkages between
traditional gender institutions and contemporary rates of female political
participation in Sub-Saharan Africa. To this end, we develop two distinct
datasets that characterize both

1. Traditional gender institutions for indigenous Sub-Saharan societies.
2. Contemporary rates of female political participation and legislative representation across modern administrative sub-divisions.

**Involvement:** Lead research assistant, oversaw data collection and
processing, built project website and visualizations.
